---
id: buildsystemgolang
title: Golang
description: This document explains how to use the declarative build system, golang and golangmodules, when packaging for openRuyi.
slug: /guide/packaging-guidelines/BuildSystems/golang
---

# Golang

This document explains how to use the `golang` and `golangmodules` declarative build systems when packaging for openRuyi.

In general, for Go library packages, most of the packaging content can be generated by automation tools, with little or no manual work required.

## Dependencies

To use the `golang` or `golangmodules` build system, add the following `BuildRequires`:

```specfile
BuildRequires:  go
BuildRequires:  go-rpm-macros
```

## Required macros

At a minimum, you should define `_name` and `go_import_path` near the top of the spec file. The former is typically the Go library's name, while the latter is usually its import path.

## Examples

Both the `golang` and `golangmodules` build systems can directly use the same common `%prep` configuration:

```specfile
BuildOption(prep):  -n %{_name}-%{version}
```

### Packaging library-only content

In most cases, library packaging does not require compilation. Therefore, the `golangmodules` build system already includes the necessary `%install` and `%check` logic.

If additional test arguments are needed, you can specify them as follows:

```specfile
BuildOption(check):  -vet=off -short
```

### Packaging binaries together with libraries

Depending on the package, you may choose either the `golang` or `golangmodules` build system. If you need functionality provided by the other build system, you can invoke it directly.

For example, when packaging this type of software with the `golangmodules` build system, it also needs to build and install binaries:

```specfile
# Build binaries for tools
%build
%go_common
cd %{_builddir}/go/src/%{go_import_path}
go install -trimpath -v -p %{?_smp_build_ncpus} ./cmd/...

# Install binaries for tools
%install -a
install -d %{buildroot}%{_bindir}
install -m 0755 %{_builddir}/go/bin/* %{buildroot}%{_bindir}/
```

Conversely, if you're using the `golang` build system for such a package, but also need to install the Go library source code:

```specfile
# This is for the source package
%install -a
%buildsystem_golangmodules_install
```

## Build system macro files

The macro files for the two Go build systems are:

* `/usr/lib/rpm/macros.d/macros.buildsystem.golang`

* `/usr/lib/rpm/macros.d/macros.buildsystem.golangmodules`
