---
id: languagespython
title: Python
description: This document describes the Python module packaging guidelines for openRuyi.
slug: /guide/packaging-guidelines/languages/Python
---

# Python Packaging Guidelines

This document describes the Python module packaging guidelines for openRuyi.

## Naming

Packages for Python libraries must use the `python-` prefix.

## Dependencies

Packages should not declare an explicit runtime dependency on `python3`, because the following dependencies are added automatically in the corresponding cases:

* When you install files into `%{python3_sitelib}` or `%{python3_sitearch}`, the build system automatically generates a dependency on `python(abi) = 3.X`.

* If the package contains executable Python scripts, the build system automatically generates a dependency on `/usr/bin/python3`.

### BuildRequires: python3-devel

Every package that uses Python and/or installs Python modules must include `BuildRequires: pkgconfig(python3)` in the spec file, even if the build process does not explicitly invoke Python.

### Provides: python3-DISTNAME

Since openRuyi does not split `python3` into a separate subpackage, but instead provides it directly from the main package, you should add the following entries to the spec file:

```specfile
Provides:       python3-DISTNAME
%python_provide python3-DISTNAME
```

## RPM Macros for Python Modules

This section lists several commonly used RPM macros for packaging Python modules.

### Build Macros

#### %pyproject_buildrequires

Use this macro in the `%generate_buildrequires` section of the spec file to generate the package's `BuildRequires`.

#### %pyproject_wheel

Use this macro to build the package. In most cases, it is the only macro you need in the `%build` section. It requires the `BuildRequires` generated by `%pyproject_buildrequires`.

#### %pyproject_install

Use this macro to install packages built by `%pyproject_wheel` builds. It also requires the `BuildRequires` generated by `%pyproject_buildrequires`.

#### %pyproject_save_files

Use this macro to generate the file list corresponding to the specified importable modules and save it as `%{pyproject_files}`. The generated list does not include README files. If the package metadata declares license files, the list includes them.

#### %pyproject_files

This macro expands to the path of the file list written by `%pyproject_save_files`. Example usage:

```specfile
%files -n python3-DISTNAME -f %{pyproject_files}
```
